the release cadence update.
It came from a year ago and we've kind of really reached the next stage of that.
So Jeremy, if you would like to go ahead and take that away.
Sure, nice to see everybody.
I haven't been on a community meeting in a little bit and it's fun to see all familiar faces.
So for those that are not aware, in 2020 with the 1.
19 release, we ended up, because of events in full view of the world, just the general state of things, the schedule for the 1.
19 release got pretty elongated.
And the kind of takeaway or the fallout from that is that we ended up with only three releases for that year.
And that kind of served as a talking point or a way to place a kickoff discussion about what was the proper release cadence for Kubernetes.
There's a lot of factors that go into determining what the optimal thing is.
But if you take a look at support windows and the number of releases that happen per year and how hard it is for some people to upgrade, we started the discussion about maybe we should move to a permanent three release cadence or try it for a while and see what it looks like.
Sort of a natural experiment sort of just said in chat.
And as part of that, we created a KEP and the KEP is linked here.
You're welcome to go read it.
But at a really high level, what the KEP proposed was fixing the number of releases per year to three.
And from that kind of backing into a loose framework for generating schedules.
So on average, releases are 15 weeks.
On average, it will be around two weeks between them to allow people to do some norming and forming for the next release teams and things that go into that.
One of the things that we decided to do as part of the KEP was to send a survey after we had done this for a little while to collect feedback from folks.
And today we're going to talk a little bit about some of that feedback.
Thanks to Josh for taking some of the data that came out of the surveys and making some pretty graphs for us.
But the survey is still open.
And again, I think we linked it in the chat earlier, but it's also linked in this document in the section as well.
If you have not filled it out yet, please do so.
Your feedback is very, very valuable and will help us determine whether this is the pattern we continue or whether we need to make any further tweaks to the release cadence or the schedules themselves.
I think a really interesting thing that came out of this was that the answers kind of break down in a pretty clear pattern.
People strongly prefer the three release cadence so far.
There's a smaller number of people that prefer but not strongly prefer the three release cadence.
And then a smaller number that has no preference.
The four release cadence preference seems to be pretty low amongst the respondents so far.
So again, this is still in progress.
We're still collecting results.
Another interesting thing is that there are a ton of people that are still running very old versions of Kubernetes.
Whether that's through choice, they don't want to upgrade, or they just can't because of the difficulty that come with doing major upgrades like that.
If you look at the data in the third chart, you see a lot of people are running 121, but there's also a lot of people running 120, which is now in maintenance mode.
And there's a surprising number that are still running 119, 118, or the bucket of 117 or older.
So we didn't really go into any more granularity there.
But that's a lot of folks that are running clusters that are no longer getting patches, no longer getting updates.
And again, whether that's because it's difficult to kind of keep up with the upgrade cadence, we don't have the direct drill down here for that or not.
But looking at the data, it's pretty clear so far that the three cadence release thing is working okay for folks.
From the release team's perspective, we think it's been beneficial.
The change in general has been beneficial.
It's been a little bit easier to staff the release teams.
We did have some difficulty coming into the 2021 year after, it's hard to really determine what the cause was.
But we had some difficulty getting role leads for some of those teams.
It's difficult to make that kind of time commitment.
The predictability of it makes it a little easier to know like, I'm going to be able to commit to this time because I know that it's going to be pretty much these dates.
Inside the cap, we have some high level guidance about what it's going to look like for the rest of 2022.
You know, the states are notional, so they may shift a little bit, depending on things that happen.
But you can get a little bit better understanding of what things are going to look like.

