Obviously the downside is that with fewer releases, the cadence or the velocity of getting new features out falls a little bit.
So that's an area where we end up needing to do some balancing between the needs of contributors and the needs of users.
With that, I'll open it up for any questions.
Again, I think the major takeaway here is if you have not done the survey, please, please do so.
We would very much like to have the feedback.
And it will help us make decisions for the community going forward.
So if you have any comment on release cadence, go ahead and raise your hand.
There's a question in the chat.
It's not really related to this, but I'll answer it since we're here and we're kind of paused.
I have no idea when Shadows will be hired for upcoming releases.
Because of the predictable schedule, generally what happens for every release is at the end of the cycle, we send out a survey, a Google form, basically to collect applicants.
So that'll generally be in the last two, three, maybe four weeks of the release.
And you can kind of back that up from the release date.
So if you look at the release date for 1-23, as C.
C.
mentioned, sorry, 1-24 as C.
C.
mentioned, that is supposed to be April 19th.
So probably end of March, which is coming up, beginning of April, you'll start to see some of the comms go out from that.
So definitely stay tuned to Kubernetes dev if you're not there already.
Thanks, Dems, for dropping the link to the release timeline in the chat as well.
I think Eddie also asked, with the change in the cadence, have we seen an uptick in cherry picks or backports? And I don't think we've seen a major shift in that pattern.
I think Adolfo is on as well.
Do you have any other opinions there? I mean, not much, to be honest.
At least regarding the time spent with probing cherry picks and reviews, it's not much.
Yeah, and the other thing, someone did a report on 1.
23 for the number of exception requests, and it did not go up markedly with the change in release cadence.
It did not.
Yeah.
Part of it was we were trying to decide, it was in a thread about deciding how long code freeze should be.
And one of the release team helped to post a bunch of stats for the last four months.
Yeah, I mean, there was a small increase, as you'd expect, but there wasn't a doubling or anything like that.
Yeah, I think on that kind of line of thinking, the number of enhancements that has landed on the release is generally, I think with the smaller things, has been a little higher.
Like this time around, we have 66 things that are being tracked, and that runs the gamut of brand new alpha things, things that are graduating beta, things that are graduating to stable, things that are deprecating as well.
And that number is higher than I think we saw in the times prior to say like 1.
19.
But it's been fairly consistent across those releases.
Since we, 1.
19 was a little different as well, because while it was elongated, we didn't keep the enhancements collection period open for longer.
It was kind of coming off of the previous normal cycles before.
And we were wondering whether the 1.
20 release coming right after that was going to be like a big bang thing, where folks had a lot of queued up things that they wanted to ship, and whether that would be unusual.
And it turns out it was bigger, but it didn't seem like out of line with the ones that came after 1.
20.
Okay, Jordan wants to know whether we track backwards for release branch over time.
Does anybody know the answer to that? I don't think we keep that as a runny set of data, but I bet we could.

